<!-- loio879ce231b09240d493304e0a591456fc -->

# Create a Database Table with SQL Data Definition Language

Define a design-time database **table** using the SQL Data Definition Language \(DDL\) syntax.



<a name="loio879ce231b09240d493304e0a591456fc__prereq_wmq_cdt_sfb"/>

## Prerequisites

To complete this task successfully, note the following prerequisites:

-   You must have access to an SAP HANA system.
-   For the purposes of this tutorial, you must have access to SAP Web IDE Full-Stack. Generally though, you can use any text editor to create a design-time artifact.
-   You must have already created a development workspace and a multitarget application \(MTA\) project.
-   You must already have created a database module for your MTA application project.
-   You must already have set up an HDI container for the database artifacts

    > ### Note:  
    > A container setup file \(`.hdiconfig`\) is required to define which plug-ins to use to create the corresponding catalog objects from your design-time artifacts when the multi-target application \(or just the database module\) is deployed.

-   To view run-time objects, you must have access to the SAP HANA Database Explorer tools that enable you to view the contents of the catalog.



## Context

In the SAP HANA database, as in other relational databases, a table contains a set of data elements that are organized using columns and rows. SAP HANA Deployment Infrastructure \(HDI\) enables you to use the SQL DDL syntax to create a database table as a design-time file. Building or deploying the database module that contains the SQL DDL table creates the corresponding table in the corresponding schema.

During the build process, the `.hdbtable` plug-in is called to transform a design-time table resource into an SQL table database object. The file formats use a DDL-style syntax which is equivalent to the syntax required in the corresponding SAP HANA SQL statement `CREATE TABLE`, but without the leading “`CREATE`”, as illustrated in the examples below. Specifying the table type is mandatory, and the type of table you can define is limited to ROW and COLUMN.

A table must be self-contained and cannot reference another table. As result, it is not possible to define a table by using another table \(for example, `TABLE A LIKE B`\), and you cannot define a table based on a query, for example, `TABLE A AS SELECT [...] FROM B`.

> ### Note:  
> The `.hdbtable` plug-in used to create the catalog table object does not provide any data migration. An already deployed version of the table will be dropped on deployment.

To create a design-time SQL DDL table-definition file, perform the following steps:



## Procedure

1.  Start SAP Web IDE Full-Stack.

2.  Open the application project to which you want to add your SQL DDL table.

3.  Create the table-definition file in SQL DDL.

    Browse to the folder in the database module in your application's project workspace, for example, <code><i class="varname">&lt;MyApp1&gt;</i>/HDB/src</code> where you want to create the new SQL DDL table-definition file and perform the following steps:

    1.  Right-click the folder where you want to save the SQL DDL table-definition file and choose *New* \> *Database Artifact* in the context-sensitive pop-up menu.

    2.  Enter the name of the table-definition file in the *File Name* box, for example, `PurchaseOrderHeader`.

        You can specify the corresponding file extension from the drop-down list in the *File Type* text box.

        > ### Tip:  
        > The file extension is mandatory; it is used to determine which plug-in to call when creating the corresponding run-time object during application build or deployment. SQL DDL table-definition artifacts have the file extension `.hdbtable`, for example, `PurchaseOrderHeader.hdbtable`.

    3.  Choose *Finish* to save the new SQL DDL table-definition file in the database module of your local project workspace.


4.  Define the structure of the SQL DDL table \(`PurchaseOrderHeader`\).

    If the new table-definition file is not automatically displayed by the file-creation wizard, double-click the table-definition file you created in the previous step, for example, `PurchaseOrderItem.hdbtable`, and add the SQL DDL code that defines the table to the file:

    > ### Note:  
    > The following code example is provided for illustration purposes only.

     `db/src/PurchaseOrderHeader.hdbtable`

    ```sql
    COLUMN TABLE "PurchaseOrder.Header" (
          "PURCHASEORDERID" INTEGER GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY (NO CYCLE NO CACHE NO MINVALUE START WITH 200000000 INCREMENT BY 1 MAXVALUE 2999999999) NOT NULL COMMENT 'Purchase Order ID',
          "HISTORY.CREATEDBY" NVARCHAR(10) COMMENT 'Created By',
          "HISTORY.CREATEDAT" DATE COMMENT 'Created Date',
          "HISTORY.CHANGEDBY" NVARCHAR(10) COMMENT 'Changed By',
          "HISTORY.CHANGEDAT" DATE COMMENT 'Change Date',
          "NOTEID" NVARCHAR(10) COMMENT 'Notes',
          "PARTNER" NVARCHAR(10) COMMENT 'Supplier',
          "CURRENCY" NVARCHAR(5) COMMENT 'Currency',
          "GROSSAMOUNT" DECIMAL(15,2) COMMENT 'Gross Amount',
          "NETAMOUNT" DECIMAL(15,2) COMMENT 'Net Amount',
          "TAXAMOUNT" DECIMAL(15,2) COMMENT 'Tax Amount',
          "LIFECYCLESTATUS" NVARCHAR(1) COMMENT 'Lifecycle Status',
          "APPROVALSTATUS" NVARCHAR(1) COMMENT 'Approval Status',
          "CONFIRMSTATUS" NVARCHAR(1) COMMENT 'Confirmation Status',
          "ORDERINGSTATUS" NVARCHAR(1) COMMENT 'Ordering Status',
          "INVOICINGSTATUS" NVARCHAR(1) COMMENT 'Invoicing Status',
          PRIMARY KEY ("PURCHASEORDERID")) 
          COMMENT 'Purchase Order Header'
          WITH ASSOCIATIONS( JOIN "PurchaseOrder.Item" AS "ITEMS" ON "PURCHASEORDERID" = "PURCHASEORDERID") 
          UNLOAD PRIORITY 5 AUTO MERGE
    ```

    > ### Note:  
    > This code example defines an association with a second table, `"PurchaseOrder.Item"` defined in `PurchaseOrderItem.hdbtable`, which we create in the next step.

5.  Save the SQL DDL table-definition file.

    Saving the definition persists the file in your local workspace; it does not create any objects in the database catalog.

6.  Create and define a second design-time table `PurchaseOrderItem.hdbtable` using SQL DDL.

    The purchase-order **items** table is associated with the purchase-order **header** table to provide a basis for an SQL view that you can define in subsequent task.

    1.  Right-click the folder where you want to save the SQL DDL table-definition file and choose *New* \> *Database Artifact* in the context-sensitive pop-up menu.

    2.  Enter the name of the table-definition file in the *File Name* box, for example, `PurchaseOrderItem`. The `.hdbtable` file suffix is added automatically.

    3.  Choose *Finish* to save the new SQL DDL table-definition file in the database module of your local project workspace.

    4.  Define the structure of the SQL DDL table `PurchaseOrderItem`.

        If the new table-definition file is not automatically displayed by the file-creation wizard, double-click the table-definition file you created in the previous step and add the SQL DDL code that defines the table to the file:

        > ### Note:  
        > The following code example is provided for illustration purposes only.

         `db/src/PurchaseOrderItem.hdbtable`

        ```sql
        COLUMN TABLE "PurchaseOrder.Item" (
              "POHeader.PURCHASEORDERID" INTEGER NOT NULL COMMENT 'Purchase Order ID',
              "PRODUCT" NVARCHAR(10) NOT NULL COMMENT 'Product ID',
              "NOTEID" NVARCHAR(10) COMMENT 'Notes',
              "CURRENCY" NVARCHAR(5) COMMENT 'Currency',
              "GROSSAMOUNT" DECIMAL(15,2) COMMENT 'Gross Amount',
              "NETAMOUNT" DECIMAL(15,2) COMMENT 'Net Amount',
              "TAXAMOUNT" DECIMAL(15,2) COMMENT 'Tax Amount',
              "QUANTITY" DECIMAL(13,3) COMMENT 'Quantity',
              "QUANTITYUNIT" NVARCHAR(3) COMMENT 'Quantity Unit',
              "DELIVERYDATE" DATE COMMENT 'Delivery Date',
              PRIMARY KEY ("POHeader.PURCHASEORDERID","PRODUCT")) 
              COMMENT 'Purchase Order Item'	 
              WITH ASSOCIATIONS( JOIN "PurchaseOrder.Header" AS "POHeader" ON "POHeader"."PURCHASEORDERID" = "POHeader.PURCHASEORDERID") 
              UNLOAD PRIORITY 5 AUTO MERGE 
        ```

        > ### Note:  
        > This code example defines an association with a second table, `"PurchaseOrder.Header"` defined in `PurchaseOrderHeader.hdbtable`, which we created in the previous step. These two tables are the basis for an SQL view that you can create in a subsequent task.


7.  Build and deploy the database module.

    To activate the new entity definition and generate a corresponding table in the catalog, use the *Build* or *Deploy* feature.

    1.  Right-click the new database module in your application project.

    2.  In the context-sensitive pop-up menu, choose *Build*.

        > ### Tip:  
        > You can follow progress of the build in the console at the bottom of the code editor.


8.  Check that the new tables have been successfully created in the catalog.

    > ### Tip:  
    > A selection of run-time tools is available in the *Database Explorer* perspective of SAP Web IDE Full-Stack at the following location:
    > 
    > *Tools* \> *Database Explorer*

    The database run-time objects are located in the HDI container created for your multitarget application's database module; you need to locate and bind to this application-specific container to view its contents. The container name contains the name of the user logged into the SAP Web IDE Full-Stack, the name of the database module containing the CDS design-time entities, and the string *\-hdi-container*, for example:

    **<XS\_UserName\>*-ctetig24\[...\]-*<DB\_Module\>*-hdi-container*

    To view the contents of the HDI container that is bound to your development project, open the SAP HANA run-time *Development* perspective, open the project containing the new tables, right-click the database module where the design-time tables are stored, and in the context menu select *Open HDI Container*.

    > ### Tip:  
    > The new tables are listed in the *Tables* node. You can display details of the table definition, however, the tables do not yet contain any data, so the *Open Data* tool will not work.


**Related Information**  


[Table Syntax (.hdbtable in SAP HDI Reference)](https://help.sap.com/viewer/c2cc2e43458d4abda6788049c58143dc/2022_3_QRC/en-US/453d48e28f6747799546236b4b432e58.html "Transforms a design-time table resource into a table database object.") :arrow_upper_right:

[Creating Data Persistence Artifacts with SQL DDL](creating-data-persistence-artifacts-with-sql-ddl-a216fd8.md "You can use SQL DDL to define the underlying database objects that store and provide data for your application, for example, tables and views.")

[Load Data into a Database Table with the "hdbtabledata" Artifact](load-data-into-a-database-table-with-the-hdbtabledata-artifact-91b08cc.md "Use an hdbtabledata artifact to load data external data into an existing database table.")

[Data Definition Statements \(SQL Reference\)](https://help.sap.com/viewer/4fe29514fd584807ac9f2a04f6754767/latest/en-US/209ce8cd75191014bcd59c2b379a17c9.html)

